---
copyright:
  years: 2025
lastupdated: "2026-01-29"

keywords: overview metrics, create metrics
subcollection: watsonx-bi



---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# An overview of creating metrics
{: #overview_metrics}

{{site.data.keyword.wxbia_full}} uses metrics and the underlying enriched metadata that is used to create metrics, to answer your questions and provide insights. Metrics are calculations that are used to measure and monitor key areas of a business.{: #shortdesc}

If you're an Analytics consumer, you can create metrics for yourself or a Data analyst can create them for you.

The process to create metrics is the same for both Analytics consumers and Data analysts, except that Data analysts can publish the metrics that they've created to the Metrics catalog, govern access to metrics, and assign them to other users in the organization.

## Before you start
{: #prereq_create_metrics}

Before you create metrics, consider adding your business glossary to {{site.data.keyword.wxbia_short}}. Your business terms or glossary gives {{site.data.keyword.wxbia_short}} context for your data and helps it interpret your BI queries accurately. 

You can add your business terms to the predefined business terms that are available in {{site.data.keyword.wxbia_short}}. For more information on adding business terms, see [Business terms](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-business_terms){: external}. 

## Creating metrics
{: #create_metrics}

1. On the **Data and Metrics** tab, select a project or create a new one by clicking the '+' button next to the project list. 

2. Click **Create metrics**. 

3. A new semantic data model is created for you. Enter a unique name for the semantic data model. 

4. On the **Select data** page, [select the data](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-select){: external} that you want to work with. You can connect to your remote data with an existing connection or create a new connection. You can also choose an existing data source such as an uploaded file.

5. Click **Next** to continue to **Metadata enrichment**.

   During [metadata data enrichment](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-enrich){: external}, business context-based metadata is added to your data to prepare it for use in conversations and metrics. 
  
   This metadata is generated by AI based on the predefined governance artifacts that are available in {{site.data.keyword.wxbia_short}} and any custom domain-specific glossary or business terms that you added.
  
   No changes are made to your original data during enrichment. 

6. Review the enriched data and make necessary changes. The [enriched data results](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-review){: external} open in a separate tab and any changes you make save automatically to the semantic data model. 

   You don't need to re-run enrichment after making changes to the enrichment results. 

   Make sure that the labels and descriptions that are assigned to every column for all enriched data, are accurate and meaningful. AI uses labels and descriptions during conversations to find data to answer your questions. During enrichment, AI-generated labels and descriptions might have also been assigned to your data. You must accept or edit the AI-generated labels and descriptions in order to use them during the metric creation process.
   {: important}

7. Close the tab after reviewing the results and return to the {{site.data.keyword.wxbia_short}} enrichment page and click **Next** to continue. 

8. You are now on the **Metrics overview** page. You can now create metrics by [generating metrics automatically](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-generate_metrics){: external} or [building them manually](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-advanced_mode){: external}. 

   For more accurate responses in **Conversations**, you must create metrics. Whether you generate metrics or build them manually, ensure that meaningful names, descriptions, and identifiers are assigned to each column. You can do this in the Advanced mode. For more information, see [Optimizing data for AI](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-best_practices){: external}.
   {: tip}
   
After you finish creating metrics, you can navigate back to the **Metrics overview** page and do the following:
    
- [Edit metrics](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-edit_metrics){: external}

- [Add visualizations to metrics](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-add_viz_metrics){: external}  

- [Try a metric in a conversation](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-try_metrics){: external}

- Use the [Advanced mode](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-advanced_mode_model_data){: external} to make changes to the semantic data model (such as create new relationships, calculations, and more)

- [Publish metrics and visualizations](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-publish_metrics){: external} to the **Metrics catalog** and specify access permissions (Data analysts only)
    
You can also go to the **Conversations** page and start asking questions. 
