---

copyright:
  years: 2025
lastupdated: "2026-01-07"

keywords:

subcollection: watsonx-bi

content-type: faq

---



{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}



# FAQs for {{site.data.keyword.wxbia_short}}
{: #my-service-faqs}



FAQs for {{site.data.keyword.wxbia_full}} might include questions about metrics or how to ask questions. To find all FAQs for {{site.data.keyword.cloud}}, see the [FAQ library](/docs/faqs).
{: shortdesc}



## Why don't I see any metrics when I log in?
{: #faq_metrics}
{: faq}

If you don't see any metrics when you log in, it is likely because the metrics weren't created for you. Your organization's Data analyst must create metrics and assign them to you before they can be displayed in the **Key metrics** panel. 

Any metrics that you have access to are also available in the **Metrics catalog**. You can add metrics to your **Key metrics** panel from the **Metrics catalog**. For more information, see [Using the Metrics catalog](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-metrics_catalog){: external}.

## What questions can {{site.data.keyword.wxbia_short}} answer?
{: #faq_questions}
{: faq}

{{site.data.keyword.wxbia_short_cap}} can answer questions about your business data. For example, you can ask {{site.data.keyword.wxbia_short}} to compare sales across categories this year or give a breakdown of spending for all your marketing channels. For more information, see [Asking questions in natural language](/docs/watsonx-bi?topic=watsonx-bi-ask){: external}. 

## Is my data used to train watsonx BI? 
{: #faq_train_model}
{: faq}

No. {{site.data.keyword.wxbia_short_cap}} uses large language models (LLM) that are hosted in watsonx.ai to answer questions.

## Can I ask more than one question in one go?
{: #faq_multiple_questions}
{: faq}

No, you can ask one only question at a time. However, {{site.data.keyword.wxbia_short}} helps ensure contextual continuity in conversations so you don't have to provide context each time you ask a question. 

## How can I save the charts that are shown in a response?
{: #faq_save_chart}
{: faq}

To save a chart that was generated by {{site.data.keyword.wxbia_short}} in response to your question or input, click the **Pin** icon in the chart. All pinned charts are saved to the **Key metrics** panel.

## How do I find my IBM Cloud account owner? 
{: faq_cloud_account_owner}
{: faq}

If you have an enterprise account or work in an IBM Cloud that you don't own, you might need to ask an account owner to give you access to another role.

To find your IBM Cloud account owner:

1. From the **Navigation Menu**, choose **Administration > Access (IAM)**.
2. From the avatar menu, make sure you're in the right account, or switch accounts, if necessary.
3. Click **Users**, and find the username with the word **owner** next to it.

